_tabs/about.md, before:

---
# the default layout is 'page'
icon: fas fa-info-circle
order: 4
---

## Ihar Hrachyshka

### Open Source Software Engineer in Networking

__My journey with open source__ started a long time ago, by chance, when I
picked up a book on Linux from a local book fair. The book included 2-disc
rip-off edition of
[Red Hat Linux 7.3](https://www.redhat.com/en/about/press-releases/press-redhatlinux73).
The system was unstable by today's standards, but I never looked back. Since
2013, I work for Red Hat, and it's been an interesting and fulfilling ride. :)

Through my open source "career", I contributed to a number of proprietary and
open source projects __in different capacities__: first as a translator, then
as a packager and a quality engineer, then as a developer, then as a core team
member for OpenStack Neutron and elsewhere.

Projects that I had a chance to __meaningfully__ contribute in some capacity:

- [OpenStack](https://www.openstack.org/) ([Neutron Networking](https://github.com/openstack/neutron) and across the board)
- [OVN](https://github.com/ovn-org/ovn) ([Open vSwitch](https://www.openvswitch.org/) SDN)
- [KubeVirt](https://kubevirt.io/) (VMs for kubernetes)

Last but not least:

- [GNOME Project](https://www.gnome.org/) (as a [Belarusian](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_endangered_languages_in_Europe) translator and a team coordinator)

These days, I'm __interested__ in distributed systems, network architectures
and protocols.

I live near the beautiful city of __Charlotte, NC__. I lived in different
countries and cultures (Belarus, Czech Republic, USA - California and now North
Carolina), and I find their peculiarities and quirks amusing to explore.

[Hit me up!](mailto:me@ihar.dev)

Commit message:

Update about a bit; add resume; list genai projects; nix
Signed-off-by: Ihar Hrachyshka <ihar.hrachyshka@gmail.com>

_tabs/about.md, after:

---
# the default layout is 'page'
icon: fas fa-info-circle
order: 4
---

## Ihar Hrachyshka

[Check my resume](../assets/Resume.pdf) or [hit me up!](mailto:me@ihar.dev)

### Open Source Software Engineer in Networking

__My journey with open source__ started a long time ago, by chance, when I
picked up a book on Linux from a local book fair. The book included 2-disc
rip-off edition of
[Red Hat Linux 7.3](https://www.redhat.com/en/about/press-releases/press-redhatlinux73).
The system was unstable by today's standards, but I never looked back. Since
2013, I work for Red Hat, and it's been an interesting and fulfilling ride. :)

Through my open source "career", I contributed to a number of proprietary and
open source projects __in different capacities__: first as a translator, then
as a packager and a quality engineer, then as a developer, then as a core team
member for OpenStack Neutron and elsewhere.

Projects that I had a chance to __meaningfully__ contribute in professional
capacity:

- [OpenStack](https://www.openstack.org/) ([Neutron Networking](https://github.com/openstack/neutron) and across the board)
- [OVN](https://github.com/ovn-org/ovn) ([Open vSwitch](https://www.openvswitch.org/) SDN)
- [KubeVirt](https://kubevirt.io/) (VMs for kubernetes)
- [InstructLab](https://instructlab.ai/) (LLM production toolkit)
- [Llama Stack](https://llama-stack.readthedocs.io) (vendor agnostic GenAI API)

In a more informal capacity, I contributed to a number of other projects, including:

- [Nix*](https://nixos.org/) (mainly focused on running Nix on MacOS)
- [GNOME Project](https://www.gnome.org/) (as a [Belarusian](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_endangered_languages_in_Europe) translator and a team coordinator)

These days, I'm __interested__ in distributed systems, networking infrastructure
and protocols, reproducible build systems and more.

I live near the beautiful city of __Charlotte, NC__. I lived in different
countries and cultures (Belarus, Czech Republic, USA - California and now North
Carolina), and I find their peculiarities and quirks amusing to explore.
